Home>>Case Studies
Our Works
## PayMedia Our Case Studies
Every solution we create is built to solve real challenges and deliver measurable impact. Our case studies highlight how leading banks, financial institutions, and enterprises have transformed their operations through our innovative payment technologies.
Let's Talk with us
### NSBPay
NSBPay is the mobile banking app made for National Savings bank which is the 3rd largest government bank in Sri Lanka. NSBPay app brings banking facility to your fingertips. The app has been primarily created for NSB customers but the uniqueness of the app is not limited to NSB customers. It provides a consumer the ability to connect to multiple banks and perform the services across multiple banks. This easy banking and personal finance solution makes the NSB app a product that allows any individual with a bank account to perform transactions, paying bills. The app provides a personal e-wallet for customers. The app currently has more than 200,000 users and new features will be added in every update. Also, savings till has been implemented as a unique feature for the mobile application.
### People’sPay
People’sPay is a mobile banking application developed for Peoples Bank which is the 2nd largest government bank in Sri Lanka. The Original Version was completed by PayMedia. People’sPay app provides basic banking features to all kinds of payments. ISO27001 standard has been applied to the IT infrastructure to ensure data security. Bio-metric security systems have been included on the app to provide more security to customers and the uniqueness of the app is that the merchant features. Merchants can go for a range from creating an account to QR code generation. Customers can use one app for both own & merchant financial management.
### OrelPay
OrelPay is a payment solution which facilitates transactions through LankaPay CEFTS and JustPay network via a mobile phone. This application helped to overcome the barrier of high cost charged by a third-party verification payment. The mobile application facilitates account to account transactions between the merchant and the customer with the use of a quick reference code. Apart from that the app complies with the Baseline Security Standards which is a common measure of standard for mobile based applications for financial organizations.
### AIA QuickPay
AIA QuickPay changes the traditional way of collecting insurance premiums by introducing a payment link option to be sent to the insurance policyholders where they will have a choice of subscribing to recurring payment using their credit or debit cards. This solution is provided to the agents as a mobile application and web application. Mobile applications will be given to the agents enabling them to send the payment link via email, WhatsApp, Viber or any other similar digital mediums. The Web application supports the insurance companies to get access to the backend in order to monitor their payments. The product has the following payment methods: Payment link Payment Link - Recurring Payments OTP (One Time Pin) Lanka QR Standing Orders Cash Cheque etc.
### LankaRemit – The National Remittance Platform
Lanka Remit Mobile Application is for the Sri Lankan people who are employed overseas and beneficiaries of such overseas employees and any of the freelancers, consultants who provide services for the overseas companies and will be able to easily use the remittance service on their own with the trust of having been endorsed by the Sri Lanka Government for this app. The “Remittance Mobile Application and Web Application” was developed to self-service any person to privilege services of foreign money exchange houses and to provide utility services at their fingertips. Both the Remitter and the Beneficiary will also be able to track the status of transactions directly by having the app on their mobile phone.
### Centrix
Centrix is the mobile payment application of Central Finance PLC. PayMedia developed the Centrix App while giving the continuous support to make great progress in of Central Finance performance. With the use of high caliber payment technology, Centrix is able to scale in the potential market not just limiting the services to bill payment sector but facilitating Digital Customer On-boarding and eKYC verification in the Centrix Application for Customers and Merchants.
### SeylanPay
SeylanPay is a mobile banking application made for Seylan Bank PLC which is one of the largest private banks in Sri Lanka. SeylanPay brings convenience to your day to day life by making payments simple, secured, hassle-free and convenient. SeylanPay supports VISA, MasterCard and LanakaQR payments where people can use the app to make payments anywhere in Sri Lanka where those payments are supported and accepted by merchants. Apart from usual banking features, bill payments and other features have been introduced in the app as well.
### Ceylinco Life Digital Payment Solution - Internet Payment Gateway
The digital payment solution provided by DirectPay under the association of PayMedia. DirectPay has successfully implemented the Internet Payment Gateway for Ceylinco Life under the guidance of PayMedia. This solution has enabled it to collect payments swiftly from Ceylinco Life customers while simplifying payments systems in the insurance industry. PayMedia and DirectPay teams have been providing a service in terms of integrating the payment gateway with Ceylinco life system to enable a smooth premium collection. Further, this solution has been giving an enormous cash inflow which has led to enhancing the efficiency in the cash management and operations while being the leading insurance company in the industry.
### Lanka Bell Merchant Application
PayMedia (Pvt) Ltd. which is the parent company of DirectPay, developed the DirectPay Merchant Mobile Application and it assisted Lanka Bell employees in making payments for their various day-to-day needs with the incentive amount we contribute through the app and to pay their utility bills, mobile reloads and more in an easier way. Moreover, it has made it possible to accept Lanka Bell related payments within the app as well. This has given Lanka Bell to the opportunity to create a personal connection with their staff and this leads to the perfect synergy in their environment.
### Sampath Vishwa
Sampath Vishwa is an innovative online banking platform by Sampath Bank, offering secure and convenient digital banking services. It provides users with 24/7 access to account management, fund transfers, bill payments, and more, ensuring seamless financial transactions from anywhere, anytime.
### BOC FLEX
BOC FLEX is a customizable and scalable digital banking platform by Bank of Ceylon (BOC) designed to offer flexible, user-friendly financial services. It supports seamless integration, real-time transactions, and a wide range of banking functionalities to meet diverse customer and institutional needs.
## Ready to unlock growth mode?
info@paymedia.lk
Have a project in mind?
