hSenid Business Solutions Limited (“hBS” or “the Company’), incorporated in 2005, is a multinational Human Resource Information System (HRIS) based business solutions provider, operating in the Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) space. Business operations were initiated by Mr. Dinesh Saparamadu under hSenid Software International (Private) Limited in 1997, with the aim of supplying world-class software products and services to global clientele. Mr. Saparamadu is a serial entrepreneur who has founded several companies since then, and is also the former Chairman of Sri Lanka Association for Software Services Companies (SLASSCOM), the national chamber for the IT/BPM industry in Sri Lanka.
Today, hBS serves a global customer base of over 1,300+ clients, across 20+ different industries and 40+ countries, through its suite of HCM software products for both On-premise and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) implementations. The Company comprises a strong team of 260+ highly talented and skilled professionals, led by long standing industry experts, to provide clients with people-centric solutions that are customisable, adaptive and relevant. hBS prides itself on constantly being at the forefront of innovation in the industry.
Over the past 25 years, hBS carries out its global operations via three subsidiaries: hSenid Business Solutions (India) Ltd which is focused on deploying HR applications to assist HR professionals in India, hSenid Software Singapore (Pte) Ltd which is primarily involved in Mobile Software Solutions, consultancy and maintenance and, PeoplesHR Australia Pty Ltd which provides cloud software subscription, maintenance and consultancy services.
In addition to its direct sales efforts, hBS is bolstering its sales and distribution in the African and APAC regions via a wide-spread network of multi-tiered channel partners, consisting of leading system integrators in the respective local markets. The Company currently works with 50 channel partners who provide selling and implementation services in their respective regions. Further, hBS is working closely with leading organisations such as Microsoft, Xero and Acumatica, to access their global partner networks, whilst facilitating seamless integration of hBS HCM software with third party platforms.
Looking forward, hBS aims to enhance its flagship HCM software – PeoplesHR – by utilising latest trends in IT including Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Predictive Analytics, Intelligence Automation, Internet of Things (IoT) and other cutting-edge technologies. With the rapid digitisation in the African and APAC regions and the change towards hybrid work models in target markets, hBS has drawn up several growth plans to capitalise the immense potential available in the HCM space.
hBS is also expanding its Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offering – PeoplesHR Marketplace – as a method of integrating HCM software with complimentary third-party applications to leverage on hBS’ client base, thus generating a new source of revenue and allowing the Company to enjoy the network effects created by such a platform.
###### Our Vision
“Make life easy”
###### Our Mission
Become the most preferred HXM Solutions provider in APAC & African regions with a globally competent workforce, agile and AI driven product innovations through Interdependence, Interoperability, and Integration with global best practices.
### Get in touch
INVESTOR RELATIONS OFFICER
Mr. Raveen Lasath
Head of Finance
+94 72 230 9988
raveen@hsenid.lk
